it is a container orchestration tool

Kubernetes Architecture

Master - Slave Structures

In Master Node, we have
 - API Server [pods, services, ...]
 - Scheduler
 - Controller Manager

Pod will communcate through proxy

Difference between container and pod : 


In Worker Node, we have,
  - Kubelet
  - proxy
  - Docker

Docker will have pods in different containers.

One feature / advanatage
If pod dies , we have all the info in schedulers.

Multiple Masters is not possible in Kubernetes.
Master is called the ContrlPane.
Services run on master :
 - Pipline
 - Kafka
 - Prometheus Server
 - Grafana

Open Source tool : Traffic.

Understanding Installatin Methods
Some type of Kubernetes installations:
MiniKube - Installation is easy
Google Container Engine [GKE]
AWS provider
Manual Install
Cogs
MiniShift
Node Can be physical machine / VM Container


Kubernetes Primary Concepts

Node : Machine in a Cluster
Pods : A pod is the basic building block of Kubernetes - the smallest and simplest unit inn the Kubernetes object model 
that you create or deploy, is also a group of containers (1 or more). Only containers of same pod can share shared storage.
Service: is an abstraction which defines a logical set of Pods and a policy by which to access them
Replicasets : Ensures how many replica of pod should be running.
Namespaces : 
Deployment : Desired state of pods for declarative updates
Daemonset : Ensures a particular pod to be run on some or all nnodes
persistentvolume : Persistent storage inn the cluster with an independent lifecycle
persistentvolumeclaim :request for storage (for a PersistentVolume) by a user
ingress : An ingress is a collection of rules that allow inbound connections to reach the cluster services.
Secret : Kubernetes secret objects let you store and manage sensitive information, such as passwords, OAuth tokens, and 
ssh keys.


in Kubernetes Communnication is done either by port 80 or 443. So, when one or more service is run in this port, it kind 
of crashes. So, it is considered as a disadvantage.


Namespaces: 

Stable version of Kubernetes : 1.7 Jan 2019

K8s features:
 - automatic binpacking
 - service discovery and load balancing
 - storage orchestration
 - self healing
 - secret configuration management
 - batch execution
 - horizontal ...
 vilvamani007@gmail.com